.TH "WEBGEN" 1 "September 2013"
.SH NAME
webgen \- a fast, powerful and extensible static website generator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B webgen
[\fIglobal options\fR]
\fIcommand\fR
[\fIcommand arguments\fR] [command [command arguments] ...] [args]
.SH DESCRIPTION
webgen is used to generate static websites from content files written in a markup language and
template files. You create one template file in which you define the layout of your pages and where
the content should go. After that you create content files called page files in which you only
define the content. webgen merges the page's content into the template and generates the final HTML
output. During the last step so called webgen tags are substituted so that, for example, menus can
automatically be generated.
.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-d, \-\-directory DIR
Set the website directectory. if none specified, the current directory is used.
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-search-dirs
Search the parent directories for a directory with a webgen configuration file and use this as
website directory.
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-color
Use ANSI colors for the output.
.TP
.B \-n, \-\-dry-run
Simulate the website generation. Does everything as it would be done without the option but nothing
gets written to the destination directory.
.TP
.B \-o, \-\-option CONFIG_OPTION
Specify a simple configuration option. The argument must be of the form KEY=VALUE where the VALUE is
a valid YAML type.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
Show more output by default.
.TP
.B \-q, \-\-quiet
Show less output by default. If this option is specified, then no output is shown during rendering
of a website.
.TP
.B \-\-debug
Enable debugging (shows much more output).
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show generic help.
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Show the version of the program and exit.
.SH COMMANDS
Commands are used to execute different actions (e.g. creating a website directory, generating the
website, showing help, ...). The command names can be shortened as long as the used name is
unambiguous. For example, the command "show deps" can also be executed by specifying "s d".
.TP
\fBcreate bundle\fR
Creates a new extension bundle either as a standalone extension or inside the website extension directory.
.TP
\fBcreate website\fR
Creates the basic directories and files for webgen. This includes the source and destination
directories as well as the extension directory. Takes the \fIdirectory\fR in which to create the
webgen structure as an argument.
.TP
\fBgenerate\fR
Generates the website. This command will be executed if no command is explicitly specified.
.TP
\fBhelp\fR
Provides help for individual commands.
.TP
\fBinstall\fR
Installs an extension bundle. The name of the extension bundle is needed as argument.
.TP
\fBshow bundles\fR
Shows all available bundles and additional information them.
.TP
\fBshow config\fR
Shows all available configuration options. Command options can be used to additionally show default
values and/or current values.
.TP
\fBshow deps\fR
Shows dependencies of nodes. After webgen generates the website (see generate) information about the
generated website is stored in cache files and this command reads this information to show the
dependencies of nodes.
.TP
\fBshow extensions\fR
Shows all available extensions.
.TP
\fBshow tree\fR
Shows the node tree. Command options can be used to customize the output.
.TP
\fBversion\fR Shows the version of the program and exit.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
webgen's behaviour is affected by the following environment variables:
.TP
\fBWEBGEN_WEBSITE\fR
If no website is specified via the \-d option and this variable is set, webgen assumes that its
content is the webgen website directory that should be used.
.SH SEE ALSO
The webgen website, http://webgen.gettalong.org/ for detailed information.
.SH AUTHOR
webgen was written by Thomas Leitner <t_leitner@gmx.at>
.PP
This manual page was written by Paul van Tilburg <paulvt@debian.org> for the Debian project (but may
be used by others).  This manual page was update to reflect webgen 0.4 change by Arnaud Cornet
<arnaud.cornet@gmail.com>.  This manual page was updated to reflect webgen 0.5.x changes by Thomas
Leitner <t_leitner@gmx.at>.  This manual page was updated to reflect webgen 1.x changes by Thomas
Leitner <t_leitner@gmx.at>.

